NAGISA: Wow, I think
it's coming together now.
SAKURA: Since your hair
is a little short, Akira,
we'll start by adding extensions
to give it some volume.
Then we'll sew them
into your natural hair using
an extension hook.
And for the final touches,
we'll secure them by weaving in
any loose strands left
All done!
- Wow, it looks so good!
[AKIRA grunts]
From this moment on I
am Farmer Dreadlocks!
both: Yay!
[clapping]
AKIKO: You worked at a salon
in Tokyo for over ten years?
- That's right!
And I only did dreadlocks.
So when I heard
that Akira wanted
to get dreadlocks, I just had
to help him out, ya know?
- I used to teach
at a university in Tokyo.
- I used to be a professional
makeup artist for feature films.
- Wow, for films?
Which ones did you work on?
- Let me show you.
NAGISA: I did this one.
Heard of it?
AKIRA: Oh, yeah,
I've totally seen it!
I didn't know it
was made in Japan.
- Cool, right?
We were filming the sequel
the other day when...
- [exhales]
- All of us were on set.
We were in the middle
of filming when it started.
- [gasps]
- Thing is, you'd never expect
a zombie attack while working
on the set of a zombie film.
I mean, what are the odds?
Am I right?
NAGISA: We took too long
to notice.
And so...
- [roars]
- Mr. Nakayama,
you're so convincing!
- [roars]
- [gasps]
- [shouting]
NAGISA: Uh...
- [screeching]
[crying]
- [exhales]
In order to get here...
AYUMI: We had to go through
a lot.
It wasn't easy, but...
When we got here,
everyone in the village
welcomed us with open arms.
Honestly, I'm forever grateful
for the kindness
they've shown us.
I know saying this
is wishful thinking,
but I--I'd love
to continue living here
and practicing this way
of life in this village.
That's how
I truly feel deep down.
- [gasps]
[exhales]
I totally agree.
[AKIRA exhales]
[cicadas chirping]
[SHIZUKA blows air slowly]
[inhales and exhales sharply]
- Thank you, Shizuka!
It must be tough doing work
you're unaccustomed to.
- Sure, but it's using
techniques like this
that are key to keeping
the village off the grid
and safe from zombie attacks.
I'm intrigued by how you live.
I think it's fascinating.
- Oh?
[laughs]
Don't know about that,
but I do know
you can't beat rice cooked
on a hearth.
You just add plenty of water
and place it on a strong fire
and you'll have
the perfect rice every time.
- Yeah?
I guess all that extra effort
makes it taste even better.
SHIZUKA: I find
it interesting that--
- Akemi!
- Cut it out, Old Man Hiko!
What do you think you're doing?
OLD MAN HIKO: Where
have you been all this time?
[door slides shut]
- [stammering]
- I'm sorry about that.
He's been acting strange ever
since his old lady passed away.
SHIZUKA: I--I see.
- Akemi!
TOME: I know he may
not look it now,
but he used to be
the best hunter in
the whole village.
- Hey, Miss Tome,
you got any rope
or something you
can part ways with?
I was haying
and accidentally sliced
myself good with the scythe.
- Oh!
- Oh, that looks terrible!
Let me get some--
SHIZUKA: Remember.
Try not to bind
the wound too tightly,
or you'll risk necrosis
of the tissue.
both: Huh?
- First, try to raise
the injury above your heart.
Tightly hold the wound
and then apply some pressure
to the artery on the bicep.
both: Oh.
- You seem to know a lot.
Are you a doctor?
- Huh?
Uh, oh, no.
It's nothing like that.
I just read about it when I
was little.
[LIEUTENANT] What's this?
A doctor?
Good, my back's been killing me
since I woke up.
Can you fix it?
SHIZUKA: Well, like I said,
I'm not--
- Wow!
What a young
and beautiful doctor!
- Doctor, I stumbled and hurt
my knee earlier.
OLD WOMAN: My stomach
isn't feeling good.
OLD MAN: My bladder's leaky.
- Wait, hold on.
- Akemi!
[SHIZUKA screams]
- She said that she's a doctor.
- Oh, how wonderful!
- Hey, is that what
I think it is?
Is that a cesspit?
OLD MAN: They're not used much
these days,
but it's a source
of good old-fashioned
natural fertilizer.
- I see.
- In Japan the rain washes away
a lot of the minerals that
are in our fields,
but if we recycle the food
that we eat by returning
it to the soil,
then we can replenish a lot
of those missing minerals.
- Ah.
- And you know what they say.
A deep dive in the old cesspit
is sure to get you ahead
in life.
Care to give it a try,
young man?
- [laughs nervously]
[gasps]
KENCHO: Who's she?
OLD MAN: Hmm?
Oh.
I believe she escaped
from the city, too.
Unfortunately,
she lost her parents.
I'm afraid that big dog you see
over there
is the only family she has left.
I haven't seen her smile once
since she got here.
To be that young
and go through that...
KENCHO: Hey there,
beautiful lady!
Can I ask you a favor?
- Huh?
- I'm tryin' to become
a comedian
and practicing my juggling.
Would you mind being
an audience member for me?
- Mm.
ANJU: Why are you using daruma?
- Why, you ask?
Gunma's known for their daruma,
and once I perfect my technique,
you better believe
I'm performing
this juggling routine naked.
- Hmm.
So, does that mean you're
a pervert or something?
ANJU: Why else would you
be talking to me right now?
- [laughs]
It's common courtesy
to say hello to a lady,
regardless of whether they're
a girl or an old woman.
- Courtesy?
- Yep, in Italy
a woman never forgets
to show her smile,
and it's rude to deny women
a compliment when you see 'em!
- Huh?
[laughs]
Hey, mister.
You're so weird.
Why are you acting like you're
an Italian?
KENCHO: There's
that beautiful smile.
- Hmm?
Oh.
- My name's Kencho.
And what might your name be,
little lady?
- Anju.
And this is Charo.
- I'll call you Angie,
then, okay?
- [exhales]
KENCHO: Oh, could you watch
me practice my other acts?
Like the one where I eat udon
with my butt!
ANJU: I think I'll pass.
KENCHO: What?
[BEATRIX speaking German]
What a magnificent water wheel!
OLD WOMAN: It's one
of those hydroelectric ones.
It produces no more than just
the amount of electricity
that we need here.
- Renewable energy's amazing!
And it's perfect for Nippon
with all its sources of water!
- It is, isn't it?
But zombie bears
and zombie boars
have been showing up lately,
so we fortified
our electrical fence
that's also powered by this
to keep dangerous animals out.
BEATRIX: Oh, I see.
OLD WOMAN: That said,
the electrical fence
we have only gives you
a small shock if you touch it.
- Oh.
- Oh, by the way.
- Hmm?
- Here, sweetie.
OLD WOMAN: Whatever you do,
make sure you don't touch this.
BEATRIX: What is it?
OLD WOMAN: An earth-leakage
circuit breaker.
It instantly shuts off
the power
if any kind of electric leakage
is detected,
which happens if the voltage
is cranked up too high.
It's dangerous, so don't touch.
- Ja!
Understood, ma'am!
AYUMI: Since I started living
in this village,
I feel like I've begun
to understand how important
connections are.
We can't survive without helping
one another,
both inside and outside
this village.
It's not convenient
but it connects people together.
Here you can see the work
that needs to be done
and the people who get it done.
In the city,
you know,
everything is available all
the time.
AYUMI: Here,
things are limited,
but those limitations bring me
a sense of happiness.
At least, that's what
it feels like, anyway.
- [gasps]
[AKIRA grunts]
[exhales sharply]
KENCHO: Hey, Akira!
- Huh?
- Good work!
AKIRA: Kencho!
KENCHO: You've been here
all day?
- You bet.
And you?
- I slaughtered a chicken.
Definitely never
eating chicken again.
- [laughs]
I know what you mean.
- Huh?
KENCHO: Huh.
What was his name, again?
Higurashi, right?
Hey, Higurashi!
- Hmm?
KENCHO: You're still alive,
too, huh?
It's me, Ryuzaki, remember?
It's been a while, huh?
- [exhales]
[groans]
[scoffs]
- He left?
Well, that's weird.
- So, how did you know him?
You don't remember him?
Really?
He was in our gen ed classes
at university.
KENCHO: But he stopped
showing up after six months.
I heard a rumor
he shut himself away
and became a NEET.
I didn't expect
to run into him here
of all places.
- Huh.
HIGURASHI: Of all the idiots
to run into...
[spits]
[HIGURASHI snarls]
It's been a while since
I've seen their annoying faces.
Those two always looked like
they were having so much fun.
Huh?
[snickers]
This is perfect.
It's almost like it was destiny.
[giggles]
[crickets chirping]
- Hey, you free, Dad?
- Hmm?
- Um, if you are,
wanna share a drink?
- Sure, why not?
Guess it couldn't hurt.
AKIRA: What better way
to give back to your dad
than having a drink together?
[gasps]
Hold on.
That's weird.
Have Dad's hands always been
so thin?
And he's gotten more gray hair,
too.
It's been a while since
I last saw him.
It seems like
he's gotten smaller.
[gasps]
[exhales]
Hey, Dad?
- What is it?
- Believe it or not,
since I've been back,
I've been thinking.
About how I idolized
the big city when I was a kid.
And now I'm realizing life here
really isn't that bad.
AKIRA: That said,
it must be tough having
to work that big field
by yourself all day,
and I'm sure Mom could use
the extra help around here, too.
So, uh, I...
TERUO: What's the point
of staying cooped up
in such a small village
your whole life?
- Huh?
- A real man follows
his greatest dream--
the biggest one he can.
- [gasps]
You've gotta be kidding me.
I was only trying to repay
the both of you.
[gasps]
You talk big about dreams,
but you're just
a country farmer who...
Who...
[gasps]
[AKIRA exhales]
Dad, what was your dream back
when you were a kid?
- [exhales]
Akira.
Have you ever dreamed
of seeing the Earth
from the far reaches of space?
AKIRA: From space?
- People who have done it say it
was life-changing for them--
a shocking experience
that can't be replicated.
TERUO: When you graduate school
and enter society,
you realize just how small
the world you've been
living in is.
The same way you realized
how small your world was
when you eventually left
the village for Tokyo.
When you look at the world
from space,
there ain't no equator circling
the Earth,
nor lines that divide countries.
Apparently, people are moved
when seeing how tiny
our planet is--
how tiny our existence is within
the fastness of space.
So the truth is...
Ever since I was a little kid,
it's been my dream
to be an astronaut.
- Uh--
Huh?
- Yeah, 'course I was too dumb
for that stuff,
so unfortunately that dream's
not happening anytime soon.
[laughing]
- [laughs nervously]
[laughs enthusiastically]
What the hell was that?
I've never seen this side
of you!
AKIRA: Since when were you such
a joker?
- [snickers]
Think.
TERUO: If you compare
13.8 billion years
in the history of space
to a single year,
80 years of life is nothing.
So don't sell yourself short,
kid.
Find your dream, Akira.
Find the biggest one you can.
Your dreams keep a man solid.
Don't you ever forget that.
- [chuckles]
[snickers]
- By the way, Akira,
not that it matters,
but that hair
is absolutely horrible!
[laughing]
- Oh, shut up, Dad!
- [snickers]
AKIRA: I've always wanted them!
TERUO: Ah.
[door slides open]
[metallic grinding]
[crashing and sparking]
- [giggles]
[zombies groaning]
- Sorry to keep you waiting,
my dear zombies.
[engine turning over]
[all groaning]
- You guys ready for this?
- You bet.
- Sure am.
- [giggles]
HIGURASHI: The plan here
is simple, really.
Turn everyone inside
of this stupid village
into zombie food!
What a perfect way
to get revenge on those normies!
Just you wait, Akira.
[distant laughter]
[shouting and laughing]
- [groaning]
- Huh? Stop that!
I keep telling you,
that isn't a bathroom!
[gasps]
- Huh?
Sorry, what's wrong?
[hiccups]
- [stammers]
Over there.
[horse exhales]
- Oh?
[gasps]
[both gasping]
- What's got you so worried,
Shizuka?
- [gasps]
Hey, Dad.
- Hmm.
- [gasping]
What the hell is going on here?
[distant zombies groaning]
[villagers shouting]
- [gasping]
[gasping]
TERUO: Akira.
- [gasps]
- You leave your mother to me.
Go and help your friends.
- What?
But Dad!
- Those friends
of yours supported you all
the way here, right?
You keep 'em safe.
- [gasps]
[grunts]
[zombies groaning]
[villagers shouting]
- [laughing]
Seein' 'em run like that
is hilarious!
- Get the injured inside first!
Lock the door and barricade it
as bast you can!
[gasps]
[zombies roaring]
[men grunting]
[blows landing]
[all breathing heavily]
[MAN] Hey, you all right,
Shizuka?
- Yes, thank you.
[guns cocking]
- Hunting club, forward!
HUNTING CLUB MEMBER: Fire!
[gunshots]
[zombies groaning]
Ah, it's no use!
There's too many!
- Let's fall back!
- This way, everyone!
HIGURASHI: What's wrong?
Going home already, are we?
Why do that when
the night's still young?
I think we should play outside
a little longer.
[booming]
[villagers screaming]
- [snickering]
- This is horrible.
SHIZUKA: I have
to do something before
the whole village is destroyed.
[KENCHO breathing heavily]
- [shouting]
[zombies roaring]
- [gasps]
[horse whinnies]
[chuckles]
Oh man.
Thanks for the save, Bea!
- [speaking German]
AKIRA: Kencho!
SHIZUKA: Beatrix!
both: Huh?
- Oh, good,
I'm happy you're both okay.
- We can talk later!
Our top priority
is evacuating everyone here.
Get them to the bridge.
- But there's an electric fence
around the village.
- I was told it was only meant
to deter zombie boars,
so the shock is minimal.
- So it's not that bad.
[electric buzzing]
[screaming]
- Uh, he's getting
shocked badly.
- Ah!
SHIZUKA: To save someone
from electrocution,
take a non-conductive material
like wood--
- [shouts]
- And knock them off of it!
- Go, Shizuka!
- That was a close one.
But then why is the voltage
so high right now?
Ah, could it be?
BEATRIX: Someone increased
the voltage and disabled
the circuit breaker?
- [gasps]
Then does that mean...
SHIZUKA: The same
electric fence
that protects the village
is trapping all
of us inside right now?
[all gasping]
HIGURASHI: Hey!
HIGURASHI: Akira!
Ryuzaki!
- [gasps]
- As expected, you guys sure
are persistent.
- Higurashi.
[stammering]
KENCHO: Hey, there
are zombies behind you!
You gotta move!
- [chuckles]
That guy's an idiot.
He hasn't figured it out yet!
[laughing]
- Huh?
You're telling me this
was you guys?
You did this?
- [laughs]
Oh, we got you.
[both gasping]
- But why?
Why would you...
- [inhales]
[exhales]
All of us are destined to turn
into zombies one day, aren't we?
It'd be a shame if I didn't get
to do whatever I wanted
before that day happens, right?
- Wait, you have one, too?
- Huh? What?
Were you making your own
bucket list
of things to do?
[HIGURASHI laughs]
What a coincidence.
Now, then,
what should I do next here
on my list?
Yeah, gotta be this one.
Hey, Akira, I'd love
nothing more than
to see you become a zombie
with my own two eyes.
- [gasps]
- What the hell?
What did Akira do
to you to deserve that?
- I hated you the moment
we met in college.
And I hate you now as much
as I did back then.
HIGURASHI: The way
you enjoyed life
to its fullest each
and every day without a care
in the world made me sick
to my stomach.
How could I not be disgusted
by your existence?
- That's your reason for this?
- Lighten up.
What's so wrong about trying
to enjoy our last
summer break before
we all eventually become zombies
like you are?
- Bastard.
- You only live once,
so I get it.
- Huh?
AKIRA: Enjoying life
to the fullest,
the way you want to...
...is something I get.
I'm doing it, too.
[both groaning]
- Akira.
What are you talking about?
- However...
If you're gonna put
your freedom first,
you need to respect
others' freedoms, too.
The people of this village
are struggling just to survive.
You must realize that.
I can't understand why you would
ever wanna steal their freedom.
[HIGURASHI snarls]
AKIRA: My bucket list and yours
aren't alike in any way,
shape, or form!
AKIRA: The things
I have written down
on my bucket list aren't
anything like yours!
And I still haven't repaid
my parents for raising me.
And if I have to live with
the regret of not giving back
to my parents,
well then I'd rather be
eaten by zombies!
- Attaboy!
That's what I like to hear.
HIGURASHI: It'll be
a competition between you
and me, then,
to see who's gonna finish
their bucket list first!
[laughing]
- [grunts]
Hey, Akira, we're gonna
be surrounded by zombies!
I hate it,
but we have to retreat!
SHIZUKA: We need
to evacuate everyone in
the village.
- Charo?
- I'll go to
the water wheel shed
and try my best to shut down
the generator!
- While you do that,
I'll repay my folks!
- Your goal seems to be
a little different
than everyone else's,
but whatever.
We need
to get everyone else out.
Once the electricity is off,
meet me at
the suspension bridge.
- Right.
Angie, stay with me, okay?
Uh, Angie?
[stammers]
- Kencho!
- [gasps]
- Look!
- Huh?
KENCHO: Where is she going?
Akira, I'll get her.
You go and try
and find your mom.
- But I...
[gasps]
- Don't worry.
We'll come back alive.
- [gasps]
[grunts]
AKIRA: Yeah!
- [grunts]
KANBAYASHI: Is she going
to stop the water wheel?
Not on my watch!
[HIGURASHI snickers]
Go have fun however you want.
- [snarls]
- [snickers]
HIGURASHI: I'm gonna drag
the villagers hiding
in their homes out one by one
and turn every last one
of them into zombie food.
A game of tag followed
by hide-and-seek?
Pretty good start
to summer break,
if you ask me.